readme.md, before:

# Frontend Bootstrap

## How to: Setup development environment
1. Make sure the following is installed on your machine:
    - [Node.js](http://nodejs.org/)
2. Run this command to install the global dependencies:
    ```
    npm install -g gulp
    ```
3. Run these commands to install the project-specific dependencies:
    ```
    npm install
    ```
4. Done! You can now start your development server.

## How to: Configure module loader
By default, the bootstrap uses Browserify to bundle all available components into one file starting at the default entry point **src/static/js/bundle.js**.

### Defining additional bundles:
1. Open config.js and navigate to the js section
2. Add an additional object to the bundles array
```
{
    entry: '',      // Path to the js es6 entry file for the bundle
    bundle: '',     // The name of the bundled file
    components: []  // Array of components that should be included in the bundle
}
```
If you specify additional bundles make sure you define the components for each bundle.

### Switch to RequireJS
If you want to use RequireJS instead of Browserify, just change the 'moduleLoader' setting in config.js
```
moduleLoader: 'requirejs', // browserify || requirejs
```
RequireJS uses **src/static/js/main.js** instead of **src/static/js/bundle.js**

## How to: Start the development server
```
gulp dev
```
Then point your browser to `http://localhost:3000/`

## How to: Build
```
gulp dist
```

## How to: Linting
```
gulp lint
```
The linting tools currently cover:
- JavaScript code linting
- Sass file code linting


## How to: Unit tests
```
gulp test
```
Javascript files in the component folder ending with `.Spec.js` will be run through Mocha.

## How to: Upload
Add a `.env` file to the project root with your FTP credentials:
```
UPLOAD_HOST=ftp.example.org
UPLOAD_USER=username
UPLOAD_PASSWORD=password
```
Then run:
```
gulp upload
```

## How to: Component library
Components are visible in the component library when they contain a YAML (.yml) file.
The YAML file should have the same name as the component's .html file and contains the following parameters:
```
title: Title of the component shown in the library
description: Component description text
demo: |
  <div style="width:100%;height:200px;background:#f2f2f2">{}</div>
implementation: Implementation instructions
```
Note that `demo` should at least contain `{}` as this gets replaced with the component's HTML.
The component is rendered for each `{}` you provide within the demo parameter.

Components can be nested either with or without a sub-folder. Currently folders can only be nested one level deep.
```
nav/
  nav.html
  nav.yml
  anotherNav.html
  anotherNav.yml
  footerNav/
    footerNav.html
    footerNav.yml
```

Commit message:

Removed require js from project
Modified js-browserify task
Added transform to require globs (e.g., whole component directory)
Removed Conditioner
Separate polyfill bundle

Removed unused dependencies, updated readme and migration guide

Updated polyfills

Guarantee loading order of scripts

Added end callback to fix a bug where the dist task would never finish

Renamed end to done :L

readme.md, after:

# Frontend Bootstrap

## How to: Setup development environment
1. Make sure the following is installed on your machine:
    - [Node.js](http://nodejs.org/)
2. Run this command to install the global dependencies:
    ```
    npm install -g gulp
    ```
3. Run these commands to install the project-specific dependencies:
    ```
    npm install
    ```
4. Done! You can now start your development server.

## How to: Configure bundles
By default, the bootstrap uses Browserify to bundle all direct childs of the `/src/static/js` in their own bundle. To import a whole directory into your bundle, make it importable via an index.js file: 
```
export default require('./**/!(*.Spec).js', { mode: 'hash', resolve: ['reduce', 'strip-ext'] });
```

## How to: Including external dependencies
To include external dependencies in your procect, you can either install them as runtime dependency using `npm i --save` or import them directly from a vendor folder.

## How to: Run ConditionerJS instead of Vanilla
if you want to run conditioner:
1. Run `npm i conditioner-js --save`
2. Remove the manual init code block in main.js
3. Uncomment the conditioner init code block in main.js
4. Enjoy

## How to: Start the development server
```
gulp dev
```
Then point your browser to `http://localhost:3000/`

## How to: Build
```
gulp dist
```

## How to: Linting
```
gulp lint
```
The linting tools currently cover:
- JavaScript code linting
- Sass file code linting


## How to: Unit tests
```
gulp test
```
Javascript files in the component folder ending with `.Spec.js` will be run through Mocha.

## How to: Upload
Add a `.env` file to the project root with your FTP credentials:
```
UPLOAD_HOST=ftp.example.org
UPLOAD_USER=username
UPLOAD_PASSWORD=password
```
Then run:
```
gulp upload
```

## How to: Component library
Components are visible in the component library when they contain a YAML (.yml) file.
The YAML file should have the same name as the component's .html file and contains the following parameters:
```
title: Title of the component shown in the library
description: Component description text
demo: |
  <div style="width:100%;height:200px;background:#f2f2f2">{}</div>
implementation: Implementation instructions
```
Note that `demo` should at least contain `{}` as this gets replaced with the component's HTML.
The component is rendered for each `{}` you provide within the demo parameter.

Components can be nested either with or without a sub-folder. Currently folders can only be nested one level deep.
```
nav/
  nav.html
  nav.yml
  anotherNav.html
  anotherNav.yml
  footerNav/
    footerNav.html
    footerNav.yml
```
